# CV_based-authentication-and-employee-monitoring-system

Our project - Computer Vision Based Authentication and Employee monitoring System contains an interactive GUI windows for the admins, for an employee/users mode and support guest mode too. The admin authenticates and control the whole system. User is someone who is officially authorized on the system. The guest is someone that are not officially authorized on the system, but they are waiting to access the system. In the system, we will use Raspberry Pi, PI camera module, LCD display, Motor, keypad and other related elements such as bread Board and variable resistor. If Authorized man try to access the system, then the PI camera recognize it, then the raspberry pi initiates its GPIO pin and the motor will start to rotate to open the door and employee get in to the office in this case the attendance is recorded, after an employee gets in to the office the door will close automatically. If the weather conditions comes fog, less light intensity specially at night time, then the face recognition system may not be functional, in this case we use 2FA (two factor authentication) – the user logged into the system using his password and a One time password will send to his email which is time bounded. If the guests try to access the system, then he or she should ask the admins to get gust mode authentication right, then access request message (with the gusts picture captured at the gate) is sent to the admin’s email. In this case the admin responds the correct password to the guest, Then the guest will enter this code using 4x4 keypad before the code expired. After 30 second the verification code will be expired. 

*This branchs script need your little effor, try to understand and complete scripts. 

June,2022 @AASTU, Addis Ababa Ethiopia.
